One of my projects I feature on my LinkedIn profile is a volunteer website that I am working on for a group of global missionaries.  The 'founders', or leaders of this missionary are based in the United States, Africa, and Switzerland.  Normally I prefer to communicate with the clients throughout the development process to minimize wasted effort and assure client satisfaction.  With the client-base spread out, and with the language barriers involved, I was having great difficulty effictively keeping communication going.  The thing I have learned through this project is that, while it's important to involve clients, focusing on the end-users of the application can also be an effective way of delivering satisfactory software, if not superior.  Through research I found the concept of User-Stories, where fictional, or semi-fictional, 'users' of the software are written up so that the needed requirements and the user experience can be flushed out.  Using these tools I was able to develop the application so that is fulfills the needs of the end-users.  I also learned that what the clients feel they need the software to do, and what the clients clients actually need can be quite disparate.

When you read the stories of people who have become highly successful, or famous even, in their chosen profession, there is a common theme that seems to run through all their stories-they followed their passion, they followed the path that brought them the most happiness, whether or not their friends, family, or society was approving of it.  For many years I was pretty happy.  I wasn't 'excited' or 'passionate' about the field of business, and while I was somewhat successful, I was left feeling unfulfilled.  I am most proud of completing my Master's in Software Engineering, of fighting through the hoops and obstacles in my way, to finally complete all the requirements and earn my diploma.  I entered this new career field because I found my 'path to happiness', because through software I feel I can leave the world a little better place than when I came into it, and my degree meant the start of a life filled with meaning, and more happiness than all the money I earned in business before it could ever buy.